Trafgen HOWTO -

There are two parts to the configuration and execution of the
trafgen program:

1) The commandline arguments to trafgen itself.
2) The config file.


Commandline arguments:

-c config_file    - names the config file to be used for this run.
                    The -c is the only argument that MUST be present.

-p port_offset    - Starts the range of port numbers that trafgen will
                    use.  To use standard ports, port_offset should be
                    0.  For the purpose of the experiments, port_offset
                    will probably be [1-9]000.  This range should match
                    up with the range used by the tcpdiscardd server.

-h host           - This specifies a default host.  Can be given in
                    either dotted decimal notionation, or as a 
                    canonical name.  Host arguments in the config
                    file will be used in place of this default host.

-m mtu            - default MTU value.

-f tuning_factor  - This is the proverbial "big red button".
                    Increasing the value of the tuning_factor will
                    slow down the rate that packets and data are
                    generated.  A value of 1 is the default.
                    0 < x < 1 will generate a higher data rate than
                    was measured.  x > 1 will generate a lower data
                    rate than was measured.

-d debug_value    - The debug value.  Probably best to keep it at 0.
                    If you want to see what's going on, set it between
                    1 and 5.

-r random_seed    - Specifies the seed value for the random number
                    generator.  Used to be able to reproduce test
                    runs.


EXAMPLE:

./trafgen -c test.conf

         Will run the program with program defaults using
         the config file, test.conf from the local directory.


./trafgen -c test.conf -f 2 -p 6000 -d 0

         Will run the program with half as much traffic 
         generated as it normally would, with a port offset
         of 6000 (meaning data sent to 6080, 6023, etc),
         with no debugging messages.

etc.


--------------------------------------------------------
The configuration file:


The general layout for a single config file line is:

SERVICE [option value]*



There are currently 5 supported services, each of which has
its own set of available options.  The following are the
services and their options:



TCPLIB addr port streams dur rate delay
       
       Tcplib streams can define their destination host, 
       destination port, number of instances, total 
       duration, individual flow rate, and delay time.

TELNET addr port dur delay 

       Telnet streams can define their destination host,
       destination port, total duration, and delay time.

FTP addr port size delay

       FTP streams can define their destination host, 
       destination port, total transfer size, and delay
       time.

HTTP addr port size streams delay

       HTTP streams can define their destination host, 
       destination port, total transfer size, number of
       instances and delay time.

SMTP addr port size delay

       SMTP streams can define their destination host,
       destination port, total transfer size, and delay
       time.

NNTP addr port size delay

       NNTP streams can define their destination host,
       destination port, total transfer size, and delay
       time.



EXAMPLE:

tcplib addr jarok.cs.ohiou.edu

       runs one tcplib stream to jarok, delay 0 (starts
       immediately), infinite duration (until program
       completes) at the standard speed.

ftp addr jarok.cs.ohiou.edu size 10M time 50

       runs one ftp stream to jarok, starting 50 seconds
       after the program begins, transferring 10 Megabytes
       to jarok.

